DOCSP-32693: FindOne by ObjectId (#297)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve.txt

query filter. The method returns *the first document* that matches the
filter as a ``SingleResult`` type.

For a ``FindOne()`` method code example, see the :ref:`golang-find-one-example`
section of this page. For a ``FindOne()`` code example that queries by using
a specific ``ObjectId`` value, see the :ref:`golang-find-one-by-id` section
of this page.

> To learn how to access data in a ``SingleResult``, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to access data from a ``SingleResult`` type, see
```

Reviewer: In general, where a type/method is mentioned, explain what it is. Aka 
the ``UpdateOne()`` method
a value of type ``Result``
an instance of ``MyStruct``

- Skips the first two matched documents

.. io-code-block::
  :copyable: true

  .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/retrieve.go
      :start-after: begin find one docs
      :end-before: end find one docs
      :language: go
      :dedent:

  .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      {"Item":"Masala","Rating":9,"DateOrdered":"2009-11-12T05:00:00Z"}

.. _golang-find-one-by-id:

Find One by ObjectId Example
````````````````````````````

> This example defines an ``id`` variable with a value of type ``ObjectId``
> and specifies a query filter with the ``id`` variable. The value of ``id``

Reviewer: S: avoid with where possible - [sg](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-using:~:text=word%2C%20username.-,using,-by%20using%20with)
```suggestion
This example defines an ``id`` variable with a value of type ``ObjectId``
and specifies a query filter that matches documents with an ``_id`` field that matches this variable.
The value of ``id``
```

Reviewer: Then, I feel like the first sentence is sufficient to delete the second sentence.

Author: Slightly different wording, but fixed

corresponds to the ``_id`` field value of the following document:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 3

   [
      {
         _id: ObjectId('65170b42b99efdd0b07d42de'),
         item: "Hibiscus",
         rating : 4,
         date_ordered : 2009-12-18T05:00:00.000+00:00
      }

>    ]

Reviewer: S: remove these outer square brackets and dedent

The ``FindOne()`` method recieves the filter and a ``FindOneOptions``
instance as parameters and performs the following actions:

> - Matches the document with the specified ``ObjectId`` value
> - Projects the ``Item`` and ``Rating`` fields of the matched document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Match the document with the specified ``ObjectId`` value
- Project only the ``Item`` and ``Rating`` fields of the matched document
```

.. _golang-find-one-by-id:

Find One by ObjectId Example
````````````````````````````

This example defines an ``id`` variable with a value of type ``ObjectId``
and uses ``id`` to specify a query filter. The filter matches a document
with an ``_id`` field value that corresponds to the ``id`` variable.
This example queries for the following document based on its ``_id`` value:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 2

    {
        _id: ObjectId('65170b42b99efdd0b07d42de'),
        item: "Hibiscus",
        rating : 4,
        date_ordered : 2009-12-18T05:00:00.000+00:00
    }

The following code passes the filter and a ``FindOneOptions`` instance
as parameters to the ``FindOne()`` method to perform the following actions:

- Match the document with the specified ``ObjectId`` value
- Project only the ``Item`` and ``Rating`` fields of the matched document

.. io-code-block::
  :copyable: true

  .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/retrieve.go
      :start-after: begin objectid
      :end-before: end objectid
      :language: go
      :dedent:

  .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

>       {"item":"Hibiscus","rating":4}

Reviewer: Q: this output shows the field names as lowercase, but if the code is unmarshalling the document to the `Review` type, it should look different, as it should print with the fieldnames from the struct.

Author: When I run the code, it outputs the lowercase field names so maybe it's not unmarshalling to a `Review`? I might be missing something in the code

Author: I think the field names will stay lowercase after using the MarshalExtJSON() function, unless I unmarshal again into the struct. Looks like the printed documents on[ this page](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/go/current/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/project/) also have lowercase fields.

.. note::

   The {+driver-short+} automatically generates a unique ``ObjectId``
   value for each document's ``_id`` field, so your ``ObjectId`` value

>    will differ from the preceding code example. For more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   might differ from the preceding code example. For more information
```

      {"Item":"Masala","Rating":9,"DateOrdered":"2009-11-12T05:00:00Z"}

.. _golang-find-one-by-id:

Find One by Object ID Example
`````````````````````````````

The following example defines an ``id`` variable with an ``ObjectId``
value and passes a context, filter, and ``FindOneOptions`` to the 
``FindOne()`` method. Then, ``FindOne()`` performs the following actions:

- Matches the document with the specified ``ObjectId`` value
- Projects the ``Item`` and ``Rating`` fields of the matched document

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input::
      :language: go

      id, err := primitive.ObjectIDFromHex("65170b42b99efdd0b07d42de")
      if err != nil {
          panic(err)
      }

      filter := bson.D{{"_id", id}}
      opts := options.FindOne().SetProjection(
          bson.D{{"item",1}, {"rating",1}, {"_id", 0}}
      )

      var result bson.D
      err = coll.FindOne(context.TODO(), filter).Decode(&result)
      if err != nil {
          panic(err)
      }

      res, _ := json.Marshal(result)

>       fmt.Println(string(res))

Author: Moved!

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      [{"Key":"item","Value":"Hibiscus"},{"Key":"rating","Value":4}]

.. note::

   The {+driver-short+} automatically generates a unique ``ObjectId`` value for
   each document's ``_id`` field. The preceding code example uses an ``ObjectID``
   with a hexidecimal string representation of ``"65170b42b99efdd0b07d42de"``,

>    but your ``ObjectID`` values are unique.

Reviewer: S: this note would be more helpful if it linked to some information about the `_id` field, like [this](https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/golang/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-32693-find-by-id/fundamentals/crud/write-operations/insert/#the-_id-field). I think the message of this sentence is just that users will have to know the Id of the doc they are looking for to search with this function -- and that message is kind of confusing right now
